petticoat Narcisa are the first Thor
beacons of spring triggering a rampage
of wild flowers an increasingly rare
sight in the rest of agricultural Europe
[Music]
Mediterranean catch flying forms pink
sources around the cork oak trunks the
evergreen umbrella like canopy provides
welcome shade for these light sensitive
flowers unlike so much of Europe there's
hardly any chemical runoff from the
surrounding land so spring rains
replenish the streams and ponds with
beautifully clean water which is good
news for the pollution sensitive animals
like amphibians these a male Marsh frogs
trying to attract females and establish
a territory in the slow-moving rivers
and pools throughout alentejo striped
neck Terrapins are abundant like all
reptiles Terrapins are cold-blooded and
need to absorb heat by basking on
suitable rocks throughout early spring
barn swallows use the mud they collect
from the margins of the pond to
construct and repair an S Marsh frogs
are not the only noisy amphibian here
stripeless tree frogs are also common
they reserved their mating chorus until
nightfall
during the night am a Liberian Midwife
toad has kept a chain of eggs moist in
the pool wrapped around his hind legs
they shackled a toad for six weeks until
hatching before dawn he'll find a damp
cool shelter to prevent the eggs from
drying out
fire salamanders hunt for invertebrate
prey throughout the night with its
striking yellow and red markings
this is a rare subspecies found only
here it will also hide up during the day
as to will the spadefoot toad using its
shovel like rear feet and corkscrew body
movement the toad buries itself in the
soft soil of the cork forests before the
end of the night
you